congratulations you are now an owner of
your very own pet barrier to ensure that
your pet barrier will work properly for
years to come correct installation is
essential please read all instructions
carefully before beginning this
installation due to a large number and
variations of door jams and door frames
it is impossible to give absolute
instructions for installation this video
is designed to assist you in properly
installing your pet barrier no matter
what variation of frame you may
encounter before we get started let's
check a couple of key points verify that
all of your installation hardware is
included find during closed installation
instructions and check underneath the
heading what's included to ensure all
parts are accounted for next gather the
tools you'll need for installation as
listed under the next heading what
you'll need before we begin installation
remember that the side that the barrier
comes out of must face the door the
housing unit must be positioned on the
frame so that it does not obstruct the
door opening and closing freely this may
mean that the housing unit won't be
positioned on the center of the door
frame the housing unit should be no more
than one inch or so off of the floor
surface once slid onto the mounting
screws this is key to ensure your pets
and your guests safety and the pet
barriers proper operation to begin hold
the housing unit so that the back the
side with the mounting holes sits flush
up against your door frame keeping in
mind that it should only be about one
inch off of the floor surface and still
allow the door to open and close freely
this will be where your unit is
installed from here while still keeping
the housing unit up against the frame
tilt it around to expose the back using
your pencil mark where the top of the
first mounting coil will sit on the
frame
this should be approximately 2 inches in
from where the frame meets the door
using an oo or a nail make a small pilot
hole on your pencil mark now using a
3/16 drill bit drill a hole straight
into the doorframe that will later
receive the mounting screw using your
tape measure and a level mark your
second pilot hole 27 and 5/8 inches
directly below the first pilot hole use
your level to ensure that these two
holes will be directly vertical this is
essential drill the second hole straight
into the doorframe and screw the housing
unit screws straight into both holes you
will want to leave just a small amount
of space between the screw head in the
door frame for the housing unit to slide
onto later you should now have two
screws mounted approximately 27 and 5/8
inches apart vertically place the
housing unit on from the mounting screws
fitting them into the holes on the back
of the housing unit slide the unit down
and into position it should fit snugly
on the frame if it does not fit snugly
simply remove the housing unit and
tighten or loosen your screws
accordingly until the housing unit fits
snugly on the door frame with no play or
wobble your housing unit is now
installed now it's time to install the
receiving Barb to function properly the
receiving bar must be parallel to the
housing unit it is also important that
the receiving bar not be too close to
the doors edge here's how you should
install the receiving bar on the door
underneath the door handle measure
approximately 3 inches in from the
of the door and mark with your pencil
using your level draw a vertical line
that extends from this mark to about a
foot from the bottom of the door this
will be the line for installing the
receiving bar with the housing unit
installed on your door frame take the
handle of the barrier and pull it out
using the pencil make a small light mark
on the door at the top edge of the
barrier material allow the barrier to
retract back into the housing unit now
measure one inch down from this point
and make a second small mark this second
mark is the top edge positioning mark
for the receiving bar with the curve of
the receiving bar toward the installed
housing unit in the top edge of the
receiving bar at the positioning mark
made in the previous step align the
curved edge of the receiving bar along
the vertical line that you've drawn the
vertical line is slightly visible on the
curved edge if done properly this should
position the housing unit and the
receiving bar parallel to each other
both the receiving bar and the housing
unit need to be installed parallel to
each other for easy use while holding
the receiving bar along the vertical
line on your door use a pencil to make a
mark through the holes on the receiving
bar where the screws will be installed
use an awl or a nail and hammer to make
starter holes to assure proper drilling
spots drill holes to receive the small
screws align the receiving bar over the
drilled holes and secure tightly into
place with the four small screws
provided
the pet barrier is now ready for use
you